Add content to working mode page (#9)
w3c/did-wg: WorkMode/index.md

# DID Working Group Work mode
{: .no_toc}

This document defines and describes the DID WG's *Real Work Modes*, 
including Participation and Communication, Meetings, Calls for Consensus, 
Mail List usage, and links to important resources.

Note that the [WG's Charter](https://www.w3.org{{ site.charter }}) formally
defines the general framework of the group's working mode. In all cases,
the Charter and/or the [W3C Process Document](//www.w3.org/Consortium/Process/) 
overrides the information in this document. Nevertheless, this document
contains additional information about how the group *really* works, so this
information may be particularly useful to new members of the group.

This document is a *Living Document* and as such will change. Members of

> the group are encouraged to edit (e.g. to update, correct, etc.) the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the group are encouraged to edit (e.g., to update, correct, etc.) the
```

sections of its Charter, respectively.

A WG member may participate in various ways including:

* Attending any of the group‘s [weekly teleconferences or F2F meetings](../Meetings/)
* Participating in discussions on the group’s primary mail lists (see below),
    and/or a specification’s GitHub repository by way of Issues and Pull
    Requests. (See the 
    [list of all repositories](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adid-wg+org%3Aw3c&type=Repositories)
    of this Group.) 
* Participating in discussions on the group’s `#did` IRC channel
* Serving as a scribe during a WG meeting.
* Being an Editor of one or more of the group’s [active specifications](https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/PublStatus)
* Being an implementer for one of the specifications (proof-of-concept
    implementations are fine!)
* Contributing tests for the group’s [specifications](https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/PublStatus)

A WG member is added to the group’s lists `public-did-wg@w3.org` and
`member-did-wg@w3.org`; see the [separate section](#communications) for
more details. Other mailing lists may be set up for task forces or other
sub-committees; signing up to those list must be done manually.

> Participation from the Public (i.e., non group members), via our Public

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Participation from the Public (i.e., non group members) via our Public
```

#### Teleconferences
{: #telco}

Teleconferences are held weekly at times agreed upon by the group. The
meeting and its agenda are announced **at least 24 hours** before the
meeting begins. Minutes are taken for every meeting and are automatically
published after the meeting in a provisional format. A more readable,
cleaned-up format is published usually within 24 hours after the meeting
ends. These minutes are considered as “Drafts” until they are approved at
the next teleconference when they become official.

The charter also states that:

> …any resolution (including publication decisions) taken in a face-to-face
    meeting or teleconference will be considered provisional.
>
> A call for consensus (CfC) will be issued for all resolutions (for
    example, via email and/or web-based survey), with a response period

>     from one week to 10 working days, depending on the chair's evaluation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from 5 to 10 working days, depending on the chair's evaluation
```

    response period, the resolution will be considered to have obtained
    consensus as a resolution of the Working Group.

By default, publication of the draft meeting minutes is considered as a
call for consensus for any formal resolution therein. However, depending
on the assessment and the importance of a specific resolution at hand, the
chairs may issue an more explicit CfC by email when the issue requires more
details and explanations.

#### Face-to-face meetings
For Face-to-face meetings, there **should** be **8 weeks** notice of the
city and date/time. Exact venue information is not required so early, but
it is helpful, especially in large cities, so people traveling can find
appropriate accommodations. The chairs and staff can help organize
invitations for people who need them to obtain a visa, given sufficient
notice.

The consortium usually has an annual 
[“Technical Plenary and All Working Group”](https://www.w3.org/2002/09/TPOverview.html)
face-to-face meeting week (a.k.a “TPAC”) and this group typically has a f2f
meeting during that week. The dates/locations are generally known a year or
more in advance.

> For the minutes, resolutions, and consensus achieved at the f2f meetings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the minutes, resolutions, and consensus achieved at the f2f meetings,
```

the same [rules](#telco) as for teleconferences apply.

#### Scribing
We encourage all WG members to take turns serving as scribe for meetings,
and expect all WG members who are able to scribe to do so.

### Public participation
It is possible for people who are not members of the DID WG to follow the
Working Group's work by signing up to the group's public mailing list,

> read the mailing list archives, or watch the github issues. They can also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reading the mailing list archives, or watching the github issues. They can also
```

> raise issues on github and the Working Group is required to answer to those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
raise issues on github, which the Working Group is required to answer
```
(+ the following deletion of `issues`)

> issues within a reasonable time. The chairs of the Working Group may also

Reviewer: (along with the above line-edit, deleting `to those`)
```suggestion
within a reasonable time. The chairs of the Working Group may also
```

occasionally invite them for a teleconference to, e.g., discuss those issues.
In the case of a specific contribution to the specification in the form of,
e.g., a Pull Request, see the
[separate text](https://github.com/w3c/did-wg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
for the modalities.

It is also possible for people who are not members of the DID WG to attend
face-to-face meetings as observers. Non-members have not made any commitment
to provide standard W3C royalty-free licensing, so non-members are restricted
to observer status only. Observers may listen, and participate in general
discussions during the meeting. However, they must not make technical

> contributions, or attempt to influence an approach to a feature that may

Author: ```suggestion
contributions, nor attempt to influence an approach, to a feature that may
```

> contributions, or attempt to influence an approach to a feature that may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contributions, nor attempt to influence an approach to a feature, that may
```

become part of the specification being discussed.

If the public contributor, or the observer, works for a W3C member company,
they are encouraged to ask their Advisory Committee (AC) representative to
make them a DID WG participant.

Please note that this is to provide as much protection as possible through
the W3C Patent Policy. We take the royalty-free status of W3C standards

> very seriously, and any attempt to work-around these basic requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
very seriously, and any attempt to work around these basic requirements
```

### GitHub
{: #github}

The WG cannot make progress only during its weekly teleconferences. The
group makes extensive use of GitHub. Each major deliverable is managed
in its own, separate repository (a 
[complete list of repositories](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adid-wg+org%3Aw3c&type=Repositories)
is available). The group intends to use the repositories’ issue management
extensively to discuss technical problems and propose solutions. It is
expected that most of this discussion will occur outside of our regular
meeting times. 

Editors of the documents (as well as the chairs and the W3C staff) have the
necessary access rights to make editorial changes on the specifications
directly using the standard Git(Hub) commits and by merging pull requests.
Other members of the group are encouraged to use the
[“fork and pull model”](https://help.github.com/articles/about-collaborative-development-models/)
when contributing to the text: work on a forked repository and issue a pull
request on the main repository for that document when the contribution is
ready. Editors should use the pull request mechanism (except for obvious,

> grammatical or stylistic changes), albeit they can choose to do that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
grammatical, or stylistic changes), albeit they can choose to do that
```

> directly on the core repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly on the core repository (i.e., without creating a distinct fork).
```

(If you are new to GitHub, the
[*“Introduction to Basic GitHub Contribution”*](https://iherman.github.io/misc-notes/docs/BasicGitHubContributionIntro)
may be of help.)

In line with the spirit of the asynchronous decision procedures outlined
above, significant pull requests, as well as the closure of open issues,
should be marked with a special label (to be defined) and left open for a

> week. If no objection is raised during that time the issue can be closed or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
week. If no objection is raised during that time, the issue can be closed or
```

the pull request can be merged, respectively.

#### Issue labels

> GitHub issues are also used as a records of wide reviews, of horizontal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub issues are also used as a record of wide reviews, of horizontal
```

	* Use an attachment only when it is likely to benefit to recipients.
	    Otherwise, place the information (in plain text format) in the body
	    of your message.
	* If an attachment is necessary, avoid formats that are virus prone,
	    proprietary or platform dependent.  For example, whenever possible
	    you should use HTML instead of MS Word, PowerPoint or PDF.
	* Follow [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines](//www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/) (WCAG)

### IRC
{: #irc}

The group uses the `#did` channel of the W3C’s IRC system (irc.w3.org; port 6667).
Task forces may freely set up their own, specific channels.

An [HTML interface to the W3C's IRC system](http://irc.w3.org/) is
available. See [Meeting Resources](../Meetings/) for more information about
the W3C’s IRC system and its usage.

### Wiki(s)

Each repository, including the “core” WG repository, has a wiki instance.
Members of the Working Groups are encouraged to use those for temporary
discussions, documents, etc. Pages on the repository Wikis have no formal
status.

## Process

The [Charter](https://www.w3.org{{ site.charter }}) and the
[W3C Process Document](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Process/) are the

> final arbiters of any process question, however the Working Group has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
final arbiters of any process question; however, the Working Group has
```

adopted some complimentary, additional processes to aid in its productivity.

* Adoption of [guiding technical principles](guiding_principles) towards
    quickly coming to consensus
* In order to balance the need for group consensus and the need to move the
    work forward at a reasonable pace, we will not require most of the
    group's decisions to be made via formal resolutions. 
    * This will free the Editors to merge PRs and close Issues as soon as
        they feel the group has reached consensus.
    * Editors will attempt to reach out to interested parties, but it is up
        to WG members to actively monitor progress.
    * Any decision to merge may be challenged during a 48-hour window
        following the decision.
* It is encouraged that any Pull Request which changes the normative text

>     of the [DID Specification](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec) will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    of the [DID Specification](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec) be
```
